# Conditions

## Griswold the Blacksmith âš’ï¸

Methods and built-in functions are good, but most of the time we have to write
our own logic and the first block for that are **conditions**.

### The `if` keyword

The `if` keyword allows you to run lines of code _only if_ the condition is
right, example:

```js
if (age > 48) {
  console.log('You are over 48 years old')
}
```

### Condition `()`

following our `if` is a `condition` delimited by `()` parentheses,

### Comparaison operators `>`

Inside our condition is a comparaison (using the _greater than_ operator `>`).\
This code `if (age > 48)` reads:

> If age is greater than 48, then do the following code

There are 6 different comparaison opperators:

- `>` _greater than_
- `<` _lesser than_
- `<=` _lesser than or equal_
- `>=` _greater than or equal_
- `===` _equal to_
- `!==` _not equal to_

Every comparaison operator are _like_ functions, they take 2 arguments, one on
the right and one on the left, and returns a boolean value. Either `true`, if
the condition is met, or `false` if it's not.

Since they return value, you can assign them to variables, just like functions
return values:

```js
let age = 5
let ageEqual5 = age === 5 // age is equal to 5
let ageNotEqual5 = age !== 5 // age is not equal to 5
console.log(ageEqual5) // true
console.log(ageNotEqual5) // false
```

But they are commonly used directly inside an `if` condition.

### Scope `{}`

After the condition, a curly brace `{` signal the begining of a scope. The scope
ends at the enclosing `}` a few lines after.

Scopes are a way to group lines of code, this allow us to do multiple lines of
code if a condition is true.

```js
if (age > 48) {
  // <-beginning of the scope of the if condition
  console.log('You are over 48 years old')
} // <- end of the scope of the if condition
```

### Indentation `..` _(2 spaces)_

Upon writing code inside a scope, it's an important convention to **indent** it.

Indenting is when spaces are added at the beginning of the line, here is an
example of bad code:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
if (age > 48) {
// <- without indentation ! bad bad ! unreadable !!
console.log('You are over 48 years old')
}
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

good code:

```js
if (age > 48) {
  // <- with indentation, omg so clean, amazing !
  console.log('You are over 48 years old')
}
```

Indenting add a visual indication that the code is inside a scope, while it's
not strictly necessary for code to work, it will become very important to keep
the code clear.

### Instructions

You are Griswold the Blacksmith, and you must give the list of items the player
can buy with the money he has, here is what you are selling:

- arrows for 3 coins
- boots for 44 coins
- sword for 299.99 coins _(limited offer)_

Declare a `purchasableGoods` array and _conditionally_ push to it all the goods
that the player can buy.

Use `if` conditions and compare the cost of the goods with the provided variable
`playerCoins` that contains the number of coins available to the player.

> You must order elements by price

### Tests

#### if the player can't buy anything, the array should be empty

```js
let playerCoins = 2

// Your code

if (!Array.isArray(purchasableGoods)) {
  throw Error(`purchasableGoods must be declared and an array`)
}

equal(purchasableGoods.length, 0)
```

#### if the player can only buy arrows

```js
let playerCoins = 3

// Your code

equal(purchasableGoods, ['arrows'])
```

#### if the player can buy arrows and the boots

```js
let playerCoins = 50

// Your code

equal(purchasableGoods, ['arrows', 'boots'])
```

#### if the player can buy everything

```js
let playerCoins = 299.99

// Your code

equal(purchasableGoods, ['arrows', 'boots', 'sword'])
```

#### if the player can buy everything, and more

```js
let playerCoins = 999

// Your code

equal(purchasableGoods, ['arrows', 'boots', 'sword'])
```

## The True King ðŸ‘‘

### Instructions

If the provided variable `name` is the string `'Arthur'` you must change the
value of the provided variable `excalibur` to `'pulled'`

### Tests

#### if the name is `'Perceval'` excalibur should stay set in stone

```js
let name = 'Perceval'
let excalibur = 'set in stone'

// Your code

equal(excalibur, 'set in stone')
```

#### if the name is `'Merlin'` excalibur should stay set in stone

```js
let name = 'Merlin'
let excalibur = 'set in stone'

// Your code

equal(excalibur, 'set in stone')
```

#### if the name is `'Arthur'` excalibur should be pulled

```js
let name = 'Arthur'
let excalibur = 'set in stone'

// Your code

equal(excalibur, 'pulled')
```

## Seeker of Truth

### Truthy and Falsy

In JS, all values are either **truthy** or **falsy**, this means if used in a
condition, truthy values will validate the condition while falsy values would
not.

Here is the list of falsy values:

- `undefined` and `null`
- the numbers `0` and `NaN`
- the empty string `''`
- and the boolean `false` of course

All other values are truthy, note that empty arrays and empty objects are
truthy, but the empty string is not.

```js
if ('') {
  console.log('Since empty string are falsy, this will never log')
}

if ('hello') {
  console.log('this will always log as the string is not empty')
}
```

### Operator `!`

The `!` (NOT operator) can be used to convert a truthy value to `false` or a
falsy value to `true`.

example:

```js
let money = 0
let noMoney = !money

console.log(noMoney) // true
```

In this case, 0 is falsy, so the `!` return the value `true`

### Instructions

R

```js
let truth = 0

if (!truth) {
  console.log()
}
```

## AND `&&`

## OR `||`

## AND + OR (`&&` + `||`) + GROUPING

## if + `.methods()`

    startsWith / endWith

## What else ?

    if / else + includes?

## if / else if / else + indexOf

## nested if / else

## nested if / else + lastIndexOf

## more exercises about scope, variable shadowing ?

## ðŸŒŸ conditionally set a const (ternaries)

## ðŸŒŸ conditionally set a const (nested ternaries)
