
# Calling Functions

## Method Man

### Methods

## Min Max

Math.min, Math.max

### Functions

Functions in JS allows you to describe multiple `instructions`, in other words,
it's a way to execute code inside your code !

That seems pretty complicated but it is the build block of your programs.

You already have been using a `function` as `console.log` is one ! You can easly
spot them because we stick paren after their identifers `()`.

For example, here's a **function call**:

```js
//       ↙ identifier, like variables
console.log('Hello There !')
//          ↖ open paren + argument + close paren
```

#### function name (`identifier`)

First things that appears in a function is the `identifier`, in fact, in JS,
functions are `variables` with a value of type `function`

So like a variable, you use it by writting it's `identifier`

> Now, `console.log` is not a valid `identifier` you may say as `.` is a special
> character, and you are perfectly right, this is a special case that we will
> explain once we talk about `Objects`, another very important fundamental
> element of your programs.

#### function calling

Now function actually do something, and they can return a result, a new value.

`console.log` does not return a value, but it will do something: make it's
arguments appear in the console.

To `call` the function, in other word run it, we need too add `()`.

```js
console.log // function is not used, nothing happen
console.log() // function was called ! an empty line appear in the console
console.log(4) // function was called with 4 and it appears in the console
```

#### function `arguments`

So in that last example, number `4` was the argument of the `console.log`
function

A function will execute the same code on different arguments, making them
flexible.

> Sometimes, `arguments` are named `parameters`, we just like to use 10
> different names for everything to sound smart.

JS gives you plenty of readymade functions, for now we are going to focus on
those that allow you to convert types.

#### function `return values`

Now to do anything from the result of our function we will need to keep it's
return value somehow, we can use our trusty `variables` for that !

```js
let stringResult = String(true) // Here we assign the result of our function call
```

Now my variable `stringResult` value is the string `'true'` and it is a normal
variable that we can use like anyother

```js
let stringResult = String(true)
console.log(stringResult)
```

You can also pass the result of a function directly to another function without
using an intermediary variable, so for example we could have written directly:

```js
console.log(String(true)) // double functions call !!!! woaaaa
```

## ALL CAPS

### Methods

Methods are a special kind of functions, they are functions called **from**
another value.

So that's what the `.` in `console.log` is for, we call the function `log`
**from** the `console`, so it will run it's actions using the console.

Now every value types have methods in JS, for example, numbers have a special
`toFixed` method that allow you to specify how many decimals you want when you
convert them to string:

```js
let thirdOf10 = 10 / 3
console.log(String(thirdOf10)) // -> '3.3333333333333335' that's a lot...
console.log(thirdOf10.toFixed(3)) // -> '3.333' that's quite enough !
console.log(thirdOf10.toFixed()) // -> with no argument, we get just '3'
```

So here in that last line we call `toFixed` from the value of the variable
`thirdOf10`, with the argument `3`, saying that we want 3 decimal numbers in our
string conversion.

Just like function, they return values that you can assign to variables.

### Instructions

One of the value with the most methods are strings, you can do a lot of things
with them.

For this exercise you will have to use `toUpperCase` and `toLowerCase` from the
provided variables.

Create a `noCaps` variable of the value of `message` but in lower case Create a
`allCaps` variable of the value of `message` but in upper case

> Just remember ALL CAPS when you spell the man name \
> ― MF DOOM

### Tests

```js
let message = 'YoU cAn CaLl Me YoUr MaJeStY!'

// Your code

equal(noCaps, 'you can call me your majesty!')
equal(allCaps, 'YOU CAN CALL ME YOUR MAJESTY!')
```

```js
let message = `DoN'T tAlK aBoUt My MoMs, Yo`

// Your code

equal(noCaps, `don't talk about my moms, yo`)
equal(allCaps, `DON'T TALK ABOUT MY MOMS, YO`)
```

## Wololo

#### Converting types

As you now know, the number `42` is different than the string `'42'`, but if we
write `` `${42}` `` we converted the number to a string !

We see it because of the delimiters, but it is also true for the memory in your
computer.

For example we can not multiply strings, if you try to do `'hello' * 2` or
`'hello' * 'hello'` you will have an unexpected result.

> Well what were you expecting really ? `'hellohello'` maybe ?

So sometimes it is usefull to go from strings to number to boolean _and back !_

- `Number` is a function to convert to a number.
- `Boolean` is a function to convert to a boolean.
- `String` is a function to convert to, you guessed it, a string.

So to convert a `boolean` to a `string` we would write:

```js
String(true)
```

One other way we can use `placeholders` for, is to convert from any values to a
string, but using functions is more clear than abusing placeholder syntax:

```js
let str42Placeholder = `${42}` // was this a mistake ?
let str42Function = String(42) // ah okey we want a string !
```

> so there you have it, calling, arguments and return values, let's see you
> apply all of that now

### Instructions

For this exercise, we provide 3 variables `num`, `bool` and `str` of a matching
type.

Using the magical power of functions, execute the following conversions:

- a `stringFromNumber` variable of the converted value of `num` to a `string`
- a `stringFromBoolean` variable of the converted value of `bool` to a `string`
- a `numberFromString` variable of the converted value of `str` to a `number`
- a `numberFromBoolean` variable of the converted value of `bool` to a `number`
- a `booleanFromString` variable of the converted value of `str` to a `boolean`
- a `booleanFromNumber` variable of the converted value of `num` to a `boolean`

### Tests

#### `bool` and `num` must be converted to string

```js
let bool = true
let num = 4 / 3
let str = ''

// Your code

equal(stringFromNumber, '1.3333333333333333')
equal(stringFromBoolean, 'true')
```

#### `bool` and `str` must be converted to numbers

```js
let bool = true
let str = '43.75'
let num = 0

// Your code

equal(numberFromBoolean, 1)
equal(numberFromString, 43.75)
```

#### `num` and `str` must be converted to bools

```js
let num = 0
let str = 'Hello there :)'
let bool = false

// Your code

equal(booleanFromString, true)
equal(booleanFromNumber, false)
```

#### conversion should apply if we change the values

```js
let bool = false
let str = ''
let num = 43.75

// Your code

equal(stringFromNumber, '43.75')
equal(stringFromBoolean, 'false')
equal(numberFromBoolean, 0)
equal(numberFromString, 0)
equal(booleanFromString, false)
equal(booleanFromNumber, true)
```
